.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii testrunner-lite.man
.\" 
.TH TESTRUNNER-LITE 1 "April 2010" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
testrunner-lite \- generic test executor tool 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B testrunner-lite [options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B testrunner-lite 
is a tool for executing test commands. It is designed to be a lightweight 
wrapper for various test harnesses. The tool is driven by input XML file containing the test definitions (suite, set, case, step). Tests are executed as
instructed in the input XML file and the output is written to result XML 
or text file.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR,  \fB\-\-help\fR
Display short help and exit
.TP
\fB\-V\fR,  \fB\-\-version\fR
Display version and exit
.TP
\fB\-f\fR \fIFILE\fR,  \fB\-\-file\fR \fIFILE\fR
Input file with test definitions in XML (required)
.TP
\fB\-o\fR \fIFILE\fR,  \fB\-\-output\fR \fIFILE\fR
Output file format; FORMAT can be xml or text (Default xml)
.TP
\fB\-v, -vv\fR,  \fB\-\-verbose\fR[\fB=\fR{\fIINFO\fR|\fIDEBUG\fR}]
Enable verbosity mode; -v and --verbose=INFO are equivalent
outputting INFO, ERROR and WARNING messages. Similarly -vv 
and --verbose=DEBUG are equivalent, outputting also debug 
messages. Default behaviour is silent mode.
.TP
\fB\-L\fR \fIURL\fR,  \fB\-\-logger\fR=\fIURL\fR
Remote HTTP logger. Log messages are sent to given URL in a HTTP POST message.
URL format is [http://]host[:port][/path/], where host may be a hostname or an IPv4 address.
.TP
\fB\-S\fR,  \fB\-\-syslog\fR 
Enable logging to syslog.
.TP
\fB\-P\fR,  \fB\-\-print-step-output\fR
Output standard streams from test steps.
.TP
\fB\-a\fR,  \fB\-\-automatic\fR 
Enable only automatic tests to be executed
.TP
\fB\-m\fR,  \fB\-\-manual\fR 
Enable only manual tests to be executed
.TP
\fB\-l\fR \fIFILTER\fR,  \fB\-\-filter\fR=\fIFILTER\fR
Filtering option to select tests (not) to be executed. E.g. '-testcase=bad_test -type=unknown' first disables test case named as bad_test; Next, all tests with type unknown are disabled; The remaining tests will be executed. If filter type is prepended with '-' it is a blacklist filter, '+' or no prefix specifies white list filter. A filter can have multiple values separated by ','. E.g. 'testset=foo,wuz' would execute tests from test sets foo and wuz. 
.TP
\fB\-c\fR,  \fB\-\-ci\fR 
Disable validation of test definition against schema
.TP
\fB\-s\fR,  \fB\-\-semantic\fR 
Enable validation of test definition against stricter (semantics) schema
.TP
\fB\-A\fR,  \fB\-\-validate\-only\fR 
Do only input xml validation, do not execute tests
.TP
\fB\-H\fR,  \fB\-\-no\-hwinfo\fR 
Do not try to obtain hardware information
.TP
.TP
\fB\-M\fR,  \fB\-\-disable\-measurement\-verdict\fR 
Do not fail cases based on measurement data
.TP
\fB\-\-measure\-power\fR
Perform current measurement with hat_ctrl tool during execution
of test cases.
.TP
\fB\-C \fIPATH\fR,  \fB\-\-chroot\fR\=\fIPATH\fR
Run tests inside a chroot environment. Note that this doesn't change the root 
of the testrunner itself, only the tests will have the new root folder set.
.TP
\fB\-u \fIURL\fR,  \fB\-\-vcs\-url\fR\=\fIURL\fR
Causes testrunner-lite to write the given VCS URL to results.
.TP
\fB\-U \fIURL\fR,  \fB\-\-package\-url\fR\=\fIURL\fR
Causes testrunner-lite to write the given packge URL to results.
.TP
\fB\-\-logid\fR=\fIID\fR
Define an identifier ID for log messages when remote HTTP logger is used (--logger). ID is placed in the field \fIuserDefinedId\fR of the message. Only alphanumeric characters are accepted.
.TP
Test commands are executed locally by default.  Alternatively, one of the following executors can be used:
.TP
\fIChroot Execution:\fI
.TP
\fB\-C \fIPATH\fR,  \fB\-\-chroot\fR\=\fIPATH\fR
Run tests inside a chroot environment. Note that this doesn't change the root 
of the testrunner itself, only the tests will have the new root folder set.
.TP
\fIHost-based SSH Execution:\fR
.TP
\fB\-t\fR [\fIUSER\fR@]\fIADDRESS\fR[:\fIPORT\fR]\fR, \fB\-\-target\fR\=[\fIUSER\fR@]\fIADDRESS\fR[:\fIPORT\fR]
Enable host-based testing. If given, commands are executed from test control PC (host) side. ADDRESS is the ipv4 address of the system under test. Behind the scenes, host-based testing uses the external execution described below with SSH and SCP.
.TP
\fB\-R\fR[\fIACTION\fR], \fB--resume\fR=[\fIACTION\fR]
Resume testrun when ssh connection failure occurs. Parent process is signaled with \fISIGUSR1\fR and then testrunner-lite suspends until it receives \fISIGUSR1\fR for notification of repaired network connection. After resume, the remaining cases are skipped and post steps and get operations are executed in the current test set. Finally, depending on given \fBACTION\fR, testrunner-lite either exits (\fBexit\fR) or continues to the next test set (\fBcontinue\fR). The default action is \fBexit\fR.
.TP
\fILibssh2 Execution:\fR
.TP
\fB\-n\fR [\FIUSER@\fR]\fIADDRESS\fR, \fB\-\-libssh2\fR=[\fIUSER@\fR]\fIADDRESS\fR
Run host based testing with native ssh (libssh2) \fIEXPERIMENTAL\fR
.TP 
\fB\-k \fIprivate_key\fR:\fIpublic_key\fR, \fB\-\-keypair \fIprivate_key\fR:\fIpublic_key\fR
libssh2 featureKeypair consists of private and public key file names They are expected to be found under \fI$HOME/.ssh\fR
.TP
\fIExternal Execution:\fR
.TP 
\fB\-E \fIEXECUTOR\fR, \fB\-\-executor\fR=\fIEXECUTOR\fR
Use an external command to execute test commands on the system under test. The external command must accept a test command as a single additional argument and exit with thestatus of the test command. For example, an external executor that uses SSH to execute test commands could be "/usr/bin/ssh user@target".
.TP
\fB\-G\fR \fIGETTER\fR, \fB\-\-getter\fR=\fIGETTER\fR
Use an external command to get files from the system under test. The external getter should contain <FILE> and <DEST> (with the brackets) where <FILE> will be replaced with the path to the file on the system under test and <DEST> will be replaced with the destination directory on the host. If <FILE> and <DEST> are not specified, they will be appended automatically. For example, an external getter that uses SCP to retrieve files could be "/usr/bin/scp target:'<FILE>' '<DEST>'".
.TP

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Successful program execution.
.TP
.B 1
Invalid arguments.
.TP
.B 2
Connection failure during host based testing.
.TP
.B 3
Test definition xml parsing failed.
.TP
.B 4
Test definition xml semantically incorrect.
.TP
.B 5
Can not create output folder for results.
.TP
.B 6 
Failed to create xml reader for parsing.
.TP
.B 7 
Failed to initialize result logging.

.SH FILES
.I /usr/share/test-definition/testdefinition-syntax.xsd 
.br
.I /usr/share/test-definition/testdefinition-tm_terms.xsd
.RS
Test definition schema files. See
.BR test-definition (5)
for further details.

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Riku Halonen, Sami Lahtinen and Sampo Saaristo.

.SH BUGS
All filter types are not supported. Currently supporting filters of type 'testcase', 'testset', 'requirement', 'feature' and 'type'. Test filtering based hwid attribute is currently supported only for sets.
 
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to http://bugs.meego.com

.SH COPYRIGHT
testrunner-lite, © Nokia 2010, licensed under the GNU Lesser General Public License version 2.1, Contact: MeeGo Quality Assurance, meego-qa@lists.meego.com

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR test-definition (5)

